Reminder: Needs are universal and not dependent on a particular person doing a particular thing.

Where does a need exist? Nowhere!

How might you know if you are getting close to the energy of a need?

#1 You see more possibilities and strategies to get your needs met. The strategies feel natural and organic.
#2 If your unmet needs are stimulated by an interaction with another person, you start to become curious about what the other person's needs are.
#3 You feel a more expansive, inclusive or perhaps even connect with your loving or playful energy
#4 You notice a "shift" in your energy. In a "shift" you might notice that the energy in your body changes from before you connected with the need to after you connect with the need. You might notice you see things in a completely different way, with possibilities emerging and unfolding. 
#5 You might sigh, yawn, burp, shake, or suddenly feel relaxed. These are also indications you have experienced a shift or a release. 
#6 You start questioning your stories and forming new, healthier ones.

How you might know, even if you think you are getting close to a need, that you probably are not?

#1 You still require a particular person to do or not do a particular thing.
#2 You still hold judgments of yourself or the other.
#3 Your energy is the same or more constrictive. You may feel this constriction in your body (for example in your chest), or by noticing emotions connected with unmet needs still alive in you like anger and annoyance, for example.
#4 You are focused on strategies to fix yourself or the situation without being clear what needs those strategies are meeting or without openness that other possibilities may exist.
#5 You don't have openness to other ideas for making progress, especially from the person that has triggered your discomfort and awareness of your unmet need.
#6 You tell someone that they have not met your need. 

CAUTION:
Empathy before education. Holding space/empathizing/listening with presence recommended not to correct/educate/point out that the empathee is not connected to a need. Recognizing these are intended as contributions but when someone is vulnerable might easily land as criticism or judgment that they are "doing it wrong". 
